# csd_dev
## 1. Contents
`Jack Dechow UNC Chapel Hill January 2025`
This folder is a (currently private) repo on my GitHub `dechowjack/csd_dev`. This folder contains the following scripts:
- `csd_main.m`
- `csd_gen_mean_scf_files.m`
- `csd_gen_psval_nc.m`
- `fix_smooth_attrs.sh`

As well as the top level function:
- `csd_smooth_mass_vars.m`

The two `gen` scripts and `smooth` script + function each handle one major step in the CoReSSD preprocessing pipeline. Also included is the `/functions/` sub-directory that contains the actual preprocessing scripts + some helper functions. If you are looking at this on the `discover` cluster, there is also `symlink` to the directory `aux_data`. This `symlink` points to:
- `aux_data -> /discover/nobackup/projects/coressd/csd_aux_data/aux_data`

The `aux_data/` directory contains the following:
- `HUC8_CA/`
- `HUC8_US/`
- `MeanSCF/`
- `MODDEM1KM_fixed.tif`
- `MODIS_SINUSOIDAL_fixed.prj`
- `scf_mask.mat`

The first two folders contain the HUC8 or HUC8 equivalent (for Canada) shape files. The `MeanSCF/` directory contains the `NA_MeanSCF_WYxxxx.tif` files that are generated by `csd_gen_mean_scf_files.m`. `MODDEM1KM_fixed.tif` is the MODIS 1km DEM on the same grid as everything else, and `MODIS_SINUSOIDAL_fixed.prj` is the corresponding `.prj` used to write tiffs. Finally, `scf_mask.mat` is a hardcoded nan-mask of oceans and large bodies of water created from the 1km daily MODIS CGF SCF dataset used in CoReSSD. These files are all used by `csd_gen_psval_nc.m` to create the `precip_scalar.nc` files. 
## 2. Usage
All scripts that do something specific have specific names, and in theory can be ran independently. However, to simplify the workflow, the `csd_main.m` script will run all the MATLAB scripts in the correct order, as well as write files to the correct directories. This script **MUST** be run from `/discover/nobackup/projects/coressd/csd_dev` or some of the path declarations will fail. Separate from the MATLAB scripts, the `fix_smooth_attrs.sh` *should* be able to be run everywhere, but for convenience sake I would run it from the same directory as everything else. Here is a numbered list of how to run the full processing workflow:

1. `cd /discover/nobackup/projects/coressd/csd_dev`
2. Run `matlab` to start MATLAB command line instance on `discover`
3. In MATLAB cmd line: `run('csd_main.m')`
4. MATLAB should prompt you to enter the 4 digit WY code
5. In MATLAB cmd line: `2016` + return
6. At this point `csd_main.m` should run through the four scripts:
7. `csd_gen_mean_scf_files.m` runtime -> ~ 10-15 mins
8. `csd_gen_psval_nc.m` runtime -> ~ 1 min
9. `csd_smooth_mass_vars.m` runtime for snowfall -> ~5 mins
10. `csd_smooth_mass_vars.m` runtime for SWE -> ~15 mins
11. Run `exit` to quit MATLAB cmd line
12. Run `bash fix_smoothed_attrs.sh 2016`
13. `cd /discover/nobackup/projects/coressd/Blender/SmoothedInputs`
14. Run `ls WY2016` and confirm `SWE_tavg.nc` and `Snowf_tavg.nc` exist in `WY2016/`

Assuming every piece ran correctly, the following files should have been generated:

- ‘coressd/csd_aux_data/aux_data/MeanSCF/NA_MeanSCF_WYxxxx.tif'
- ‘coressd/Blender/SmoothedInputs/WYxxxx/Snowf_tavg.nc'
- ‘coressd/Blender/SmoothedInputs/WYxxxx/SWE_tavg.nc'
- ‘coressd/PrecipScalarFiles/WYxxxx/precip_scalar.nc'

If all these files exist, then all preprocessing steps for the requested year should be available and the continental scale runs of CoReSSD can proceed!